adr: Add <AMS>-batch-number label/taint for AMS (#535)
elastisys/compliantkubernetes: docs/adr/0034-how-to-run-multiple-ams-packages-of-the-same-type.md

> # How to run multiple AMS packages of the same type in the same ck8s cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# How to run multiple AMS packages of the same type in the same ck8s environment
```

* Status: accepted
* Deciders: arch meeting
* Date: 2023-03-23

## Context and Problem Statement

Some of our customers request multiple AMS packages of the same size or different sizes, using 1 package per request or multiple packages in the same request (batch-order).
How should we add the second or n-th package? Should we scale the nodes vertically or horizontally?

> If we scale horizontally, then in some cases we need to add AMS packages of different sizes and this brings up the problem where we need to stick the package to a specific set of nodes otherwise for example, after a maintenance that reboots the nodes, a postgres-4 package might be schedulled on a node that was intended for a postgres-8 package and the postgres-8 pod will not be able to be schedulled anymore because it does not fit on the postgres-4 node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we scale horizontally, then in some cases we need to add AMS packages of different sizes and this brings up the problem where we need to stick the package to a specific set of nodes otherwise for example, after a maintenance that reboots the nodes, a postgres-4 package might be scheduled on a node that was intended for a postgres-8 package and the postgres-8 pod will not be able to be scheduled anymore because it does not fit on the postgres-4 node.
```

Author: Fixed
I wonder why it was not picked by the pre-commit check...

How can we overcome this issue? Should we add a `elastisys.io/ams-cluster-name` label/taint for the AMS with dedicated nodes?

## Decision Drivers

* We want to deliver a stable and secure platform.
* We want to best serve our customer needs.
* We want to find a solution which is scalable and minimizes administrator burden.
* We don't want to waste infrastructure.

## Considered Options

1. Always scale the nodes vertically and fit multiple postgres packages on the same pair of nodes.
    * but how many packages should we place on the same pair of nodes? max 3 packages? max 5 packages?
    * up to what node sizes?
    * what about resource waste? we will not find VM flavors that match exactly our sum of packages.
On the other hand we reduce the resources allocated to our services(each node is eating ~ 1 CPU and 2GB ram, by placing 3 packages on the same node we reduce by 2CPU and 4GB RAM the resource waste)

> 2. Always scale horizontally and place each package on its dedicated pair of nodes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Always scale horizontally and place each package on its own set of dedicated of nodes
```

Author: I have changed it to:
`Always scale horizontally and place each package on its own set of dedicated nodes` as the last `of` before the `nodes` is not really needed.
Please check now

Author: @OlleLarsson is this OK now?
@Xartos would you like to add/comment something?

3. Scale the AMS dedicated nodes vertically so that it fits all packages on the same set of nodes.
    * but how many packages should we place on the same pair of nodes? max 3 packages? max 5 packages?
    * up to what node sizes?
    * what about resource waste? we will not find VM flavors that match exactly our sum of packages.

## Decision Outcome

Chosen options: 2

1. Always scale horizontally and place each package on its own set of dedicated nodes.

>     * "Add additional label/taints like `elastisys.io/ams-cluster-name` to avoidrebooting multiple nodes of the same ams-cluster-name to be rebooted at the same time"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * "Add additional label `elastisys.io/ams-cluster-name` to set of nodes dedicated to a specific package"
```

Author: Fixed
Please check again
Thx
